# Running EPACTS in DNAnexus on hg38 data

Here is a quick tuturial on running EPACTS in DNAnexus. We use custom shell scripts, called from the *Swiss Army Knife* command line to run EPACTS commands (just like you would locally) together with a docker image containing all of the EPACTS code. We'll use Topmed freeze5b data from the Amish cohort in this example.

## Getting Started -- Swiss Army Knife

First, you'll need to login to DNAnexus and create a new folder for your EPACTS scripts. I've created one for this tutorial [here](https://platform.dnanexus.com/projects/F292q6001JK51p1PJ64F8fb0/data/sandbox_testing/epacts_hg38).

### Prerequisites

Docker image for EPACTS adapted for hg38 available on docker hub: [tmajarian/epacts-rmkl:latest](https://hub.docker.com/r/tmajarian/epacts-rmkl/)

### Writing scripts for DNAnexus

Running EPACTS on DNAnexus boils down to copying your normal command line input to a shell script. The script is then interpreted within a docker image, and the EPACTS commands executed. For more information on running EPACTS from the commend line, see their [documentation](https://genome.sph.umich.edu/wiki/EPACTS). From here, we'll assume that you know the basics of using EPACTS. 

In this tutorial, we'd like to generate and use a kinship matrix in a single variant association analysis. We'll do this by running Epacts/Emmax on our input genotype and phenotype files.

For ease of this tutorial, we've subsetted the Topmed data to only the Amish individuals and only chromosome 9. We've also generated a glycemic traits phenotype file only for these individuals. All of this data can be found [here](https://platform.dnanexus.com/projects/F292q6001JK51p1PJ64F8fb0/data/sandbox_testing/epacts_hg38).

The relevant Epacts commands are:

```bash
touch Amish.vcf.bgz.tbi
$runepacts make-kin --vcf Amish.vcf.bgz --min-maf 0.01 --out amish.kinf --run 2 --buildver hg38
$runepacts single --vcf Amish.vcf.bgz --ped epacts_amish_glycemic_traits.ped --min-maf 0.001 --kin amish.kinf --pheno FG --cov SEX --cov AGE --test q.emmax --out amish_fg --run 2 --buildver hg38
```

For hg38 data, we need to include the input parameter `--buildver hg38`. Otherwise, Epacts defualts to hg19.

To run this on DNANexus through the Swiss Army Knife app, we'll need to save it as a shell script. This can be seen [here](https://platform.dnanexus.com/projects/F292q6001JK51p1PJ64F8fb0/data/sandbox_testing/epacts_hg38) as `amish_kinship_singlevar.sh`.

## Running the script from the GUI

1. From the `epacts_hg38` folder, we can use the preconfigured workflow `epacts_hg38`. (A tutorial on how to create this can be found in the [general Epacts for DNANexus tutorial](https://github.com/manning-lab/topmed-t2d-glycemia-public/blob/master/workflows/epacts/README.md))
2. Click on the `epacts_hg38` to configure the workflow.
3. Click `inputs` near the left side of page to select input files.
4. Navigate to the `epacts_hg38` folder and select: Amish.vcf.bgz, Amish.vcf.bgz.tbi, epacts_amish_glycemic_traits.ped, and amish_kinship_singlevar.sh. Click `Select` at the bottom right.
5. Next, click `Swiss Army Knife` in black near the center of the screen.
6. Ensure the under `Command line` we have `sh amish_kinship_singlevar.sh`.
7. Under `Optional Docker image identifier`, make sure we have `tmajarian/epacts-rmkl:latest`.
8. Click `Save` then `Run as Analysis...` in green to run the script.